# AIPredictiveAnalyticsNIA
Collections Regular payment of customer loan dues pay a very important attribute in financial industry. When the customers do not pay their loan dues in time there is lot of overhead which gets involved in the organization to ensure payment from the customer and ensuring that it does not turn into NPA. Hence, it is important to identify the pattern establishing a prediction for the customers who turn ‘bad’ in the future.  Your challenge is to identify and develop solutions for customers who are ‘good’ today and paying their EMI’s on time but may turn into ‘bad’ in future so that organization can take timely corrective actions.
# Project description:
Challenge for Collections: Idea is to identify and develop solutions for customers who are ‘good’ today and paying their EMI’s on time but may turn into ‘bad’ in future so that organization can take timely corrective actions. Solution: Advanced analytics techniques that use both historical and new data to forecast activity, current market trends and behavior is Predictive Analytics. 
# AI Predictive Analytics:
# Fraud Detection :
Using predictive analytics, banks can define fraud prediction models based on past cases of fraud and on cases deemed suspect. Predictive analytics searches for patterns and trends in data to determine why something is happening. Validation screening Predictive analytics can be used to process huge volumes of applications, without excluding important variables, and without delays or errors. Using Artificial intelligence and machine learning , Advanced analytics tool identify the prediction of future errors in borrowers and detects using algorithm to screen validate the customers and finds solution to prevent them in future. The trained model has got trained with 5 lac records, will work on loan behaviors prediction using machine learning models. Data Mining is a promising area of data analysis which aims to extract useful knowledge from tremendous amount of complex data sets. This work aims to develop a model and construct a prototype for the same using a data set available. The model is a decision tree based classification model that decides the decision. Prior to building the model, the dataset is pre-processed, reduced and made ready to provide efficient predictions. The final model is used for prediction with the test dataset and the experimental results prove the efficiency of the built model. 
# Risk Analysis & Profit Analysis:
# Analysis Scenario
A loan manager is requesting a statistical model to help her department determine which loan applicants are creditable, i.e. most likely to repay their loans. An applicant’s demographic and socio-economic profiles are considered by loan managers before a decision is made regarding his/her loan application. The manager’s goal is to minimize risk and maximize profits for the bank’s loan portfolio. The manager shares the information that for the type of loans the model would predict, if the borrower pays back the loan, the bank makes a profit of 35% the value of the loan. On the other hand, if the borrower defaults, the bank’s loss is 100%. The bank does not lose money for applicants who are rejected and the manager claims the model does not have to take into account the opportunity cost for applicants who would have repaid the loan but were rejected.
Upon receiving this request, I decided to develop a model for the manager that maximizes a profit-cost function given the provided data. The priority of the model fitting task will be prediction in this case as the manager has not specifically requested an interpretable model, but has requested a model with the best profit characteristics.

Predicting loan defaults with decision trees.
The tool helps the banks to minimize the possible losses and can increase the volume of credits. The result of this credit risk assessment will be the prediction of Probability of Default (PD) of an applicant. Hence, it becomes important to build a model that will consider the various aspects of the applicant and produces an assessment of the Probability of Default of the applicant. This parameter PD, help the bank to make decision if they can extend to offer the loan services to the applicant or not. In such scenario the data being analyzed is huge and complex and using data mining techniques to obtain the result is the most suitable option provided its efficient analytical methodology that finds useful knowledge. There are many such work has been done previously, but they have not explored the use of the features in machine learning classifier. Decision Trees Along with linear classifiers, decision trees are amongst the most widely used classification techniques in the real world. This method is extremely intuitive, simple to implement and provides interpretable predictions. Classifier is designs a simple, recursive greedy algorithm to learn decision trees from data. Finally, you will extend this approach to deal with continuous inputs, a fundamental requirement for practical problems. In this module, you will investigate a brand new case-study in the financial sector: predicting the risk associated with a bank loan. You will implement your own decision tree learning algorithm on real loan data. 
Steps: Data Exploration and Preprocessing Feature Engineering Model Validation and Selection Model Evaluation Conclusion and Discussion

